# APR Scripts
First of all, after you downloads these scripts, you may need to replace CRLF in these scripts with LF.
## 0_init.cmd
This script is to setup the synthesis files {../Netlist/CHIP_syn.v} and the databases. \
The ioc file is also generated. \
A process node 130 is declared. \
Note that mmmc.view should be created by yourself before this step.
## 1_floorplan.cmd
This script is to floorplan your design. \
The aspect ratio, utilization rate and core-to-border distances could be changed here. \
If you use macros in your design, halos are created in this step.
## 2_powerplan.cmd
This script is to powerplan your design. \
A power ring is added here. \
Vertical and horizontal power stripes are created in this step. \
Power rail is also made. \
After these, drc and connectivity are checked, and you could see the output in innovus shell. \
If there are no out-of-die errors of corner pins in the drc check, go to 4; otherwise, go to 3 and move the corner pins.
## 3_movecornerpin.cmd
You may notice there is no this file on github. \
Because the ioc generated by innovus tends to make corner pins conflict with each other, you need to drag and separate the corner pins in innovus GUI.
## 4_place.cmd
This script is to place your design. \
If there are timing violations or DRCs, you need to ECO them in GUI.
## 5_cts.cmd
Before this step, you need to prepare {../Netlist/CHIP_cts.sdc}, which contains no simulated clock and wire load model. \
This script will clock tree synthesize your design. \
If there are timing violations or DRCs, you need to ECO them in GUI. \
A clock tree debugger is opened.
## 6_route.cmd
This script is to nano-route your design. \
Again, if there are timing violations or DRCs, you need to ECO them in GUI.
## 7_verifyandoutput.cmd
In this step, IO filler is added. \
The whole chip is finished here. \
DRC, connectivity and antenna are verified, and they should not have any errors. \
Netlist {CHIP_pr.v} is written, {CHIP_pr.sdf} is generated and {CHIP.gds} is created. \
The final timing and area are anaylized.
